---
layout: post
title:  "Weekly Blog #3: Where to Focus"
categories: [blog, weekly, personal]
tags: [learning]
---

# Weekly Blog #3: Where to Focus

OK, so I have clarity, I am excited, and I think I know where I want to go, but the "where" is actually a lot of "wheres" and
it can be so hard to focus and prioritize! (Which is like 99% of my job...)

I'm someone who can get easily excited and easily dedicated. This was *really* dangerous when I was single and not a parent 
because I would just spend 100% of my time doing things. Even if things were not *that* exciting, I would still be dedicated. 
For example, when I was a first year at UCSD I worked 3 jobs totaling abour 50-60 hours a week. I worked about 30 hours a week
as a manager at the San Diego Zoo in food service, I worked 10-20 hours a week as an assistant to a research psychiatrist running
studies on depression in children (I even got to run the fMRI machine a few times - don't worry, I was trained on it), and I worked
10-20 hours a week in one of the cafeterias on campus. I had to do this at the time, because I was paying for college myself and
I was a pre-med major, so knew I had a lot more (expensive) school ahead of me. 

When I switched to computer science, I was lucky enough that the department had a paid tutor program. So I was able to quit my
other jobs and work as a tutor for 20-30 hours a week instead. This job paid higher and was extremely relevant to my career. I
ended up learning a lot, I didn't have to drive anywhere, and if no students needed help I could work on my own homework. I also
took out loans at this point because I knew it was more likely that I would have a decently high paying job relatively soon. 
However I did this with much enthusiasm as well, often tutoring for 2-3 classes at a time. When I started tutoring with Beth Simon
I discovered the world of computer science education research and I decided to focus on tutoring for her while helping develop
assignments and research the pedagogies we were trying out. This let me focus a bit more, but of course it was about 20-30 hours w
week of work still. 

I then started as a Master's student and became the Women in Computer graduate president, a Microsoft Intern Ambassador, and 
continued doing research with Beth, all while taking classes. During my PhD I started a company and still published over a dozen
papers, all requiring travel to conferences around the world - oh, and taking classes and actually building CodeSpells and doing
research on it for those papers. 

Since graduating I've: been a post-doc, taught 3 courses at UCSD in Computer Science and Education (one of which I developed myself),
been a contractor and built a working prototype of a GitHub for kids under 13, been an Engineering Manager, written nearly ten
technical books for novices on the For Dummies series, and am now a Sr PM at Microsoft focused on increasing the number of skilled
Azure learners in the K-12 and Lifetime Learner spaces. 

I love my job because my 9-5 is composed of things that I would often do in my spare time when I was a manager at GitHub, so I'm
now able to do that during the big portion of my day instead of on nights and weekends. I also love that I can explore different
user segments and think about how to support *all* novices. The part that I need to make sure I focus on is prioritizing. Quality
over quantity. 

Since having Ayla my time is so much more limited. If I stay up past 10pm I know I won't get 8 hours of sleep and I will be dragging
the next day. From 630am-8am is my time to spend with Ayla, play with her, engage with her, and just be with her in the moment. 
From 8am-5pm I am working. From 5pm-7pm I'm usually doing a combination of working, chores, and being with Ayla. Adrian usually
handles bath and bedtime. From 7pm-10pm I might workout, work, do chores, or just relax a bit. Sometimes you'll find me asleep
by 930pm. The tricky part is, I can't squeeze time from one day and put it on another day anymore. I can't only focus on work
for one week and leave chores for the weekend because Ayla literally needs clothes or a plate, or a bib (and I don't want to buy
3 weeks worth of clothes and dishes and bibs). I can't stay up late because Ayla *will* wake up every morning. I can't skip a 
meal because Ayla needs to eat. Being a mother has made me realize how important consistency and prioritization are. I really
have to focus on what is most important in that moment and not take for granted the moments that are spent with her. I figured it
out the other day, and between work and sleep I only see Ayla about 30 hours a week. That is less than I'm working. This realization
made me incredibly sad, but also incredibly grateful. 

I'm grateful that I can afford to have a nanny. I'm grateful that I found a nanny I trust. I'm grateful that Ayla is getting 
everything I wanted for her, even if I'm not the one physically there. I'm grateful to have a job I love. I'm grateful I get to
work from home so I can sneak kisses from Ayla on my lunch break (if she's home, they're often out adventuring through SD). I'm 
grateful to have a partner that will handle bedtime so I can do chores, decompress, or get some extra work in. I'm grateful for
the incredibly privelged life that I have. That yes, I worked hard for, but I was also extremely lucky to find. 

I'm ever so grateful...and yet...it's still so hard!

Not sure how this post turned into what it did, but here we are. Thank you to everyone who has made my life better in all of the
ways you have. I'm grateful for you too. <3 
