---
layout: post
title:  "Daily Blog #1: Failure"
categories: [blog, daily, personal]
tags: [growth mindset, learning]
---

# Daily Blog #1: Failure

My mom gave me this book:
[First Things First Every Day](https://www.amazon.com/First-Things-Stephen-R-Covey/dp/0684802031/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1550783140&sr=8-1&keywords=first+things+first+stephen+covey) - Stephen R. Covey, A. Roger Merrill, and Rebecca R. Merrill

If you haven't come across this book, basically each day there is a "thought byte" presented to you, along wiht a page number if you want to continue
reflecting in that space but want a few more bytes to help guide you. 

And every day I read the excerpt of the day and reflect on it a bit. 

<!--more-->

Today's is "Success in one role can't justily failure in another."

This one is a hard one for me because I also recently took the [Enneagram test](https://enneagraminstitute.com) where I was exactly split between
a 2 (The Helper) and a 3 (The Achiever). With these two traits, being a mom and a professional and a wife and a woman and a human is...hard.
I already constantly feel like I'm not doing enough for other people, while simultaneaously believing I'm not succeeding in my personal or
professional life. I don't feel like I'm working hard enough, mothering well enough, or taking care of myself enough. I think today's thought
byte is actually something I need to do the opposite of, at least in my head. 

I have a problem with failing. Which is crazy because I 100% believe in [growth mindset](https://www.mindsetworks.com/science/) and when I do fail I always learn something from it. 
That being said, the 3 in me makes it very difficult for me to fail. I would rather stay up all night to get it done than not do it, and this
often results in more failure. I am learning to do "good enough" and learning to be OK with that. 

The funny thing is, that "good enough" in my mind is "failure". So while the book is probably implying a *true* failure, and I can understand
the messaging, my mind will read it as "You have to be perfect in everything" - which is untrue, unhealthy, and impossible. 

I encourage you to take a few moments, 5 minutes even, to just sit with that thought byte and think about what you might be neglecting in 
favor of something "more important". And to think about how you interpret this excerpt in your own life. 
