---
layout: post
title:  "Weekly Blog #2: Gaining Clarity"
categories: [blog, weekly, personal]
tags: [growth mindset, learning]
---

# Weekly Blog #2: Gaining Clarity

This week was eye opening for me in a very good way. Week 4 into my new role at Microsoft I'm finally starting to feel like I have a grasp
on what I should be and want to focus on. The role of "Sr Program Manager" a Microsoft is an interesting one, particularly since I'm not
necessarily focused on a product and team, but rather on an idea and market(s). 

I get to focus on both K-12 learners and Lifelong learners (specifically in the role of Data Analyst). This is not only a broad scope, but
each of these markets has a lot of silos that might be of interest for us to target. My overall charge is this: 
> How can I help novices in the tech field use Azure to better solve the problems they are facing. 

I don't care to have a third grader learn to spin up a VM for the sake of it. And I don't care for a manufacturing manager to upload their
data into SQL Server just to have it "in the cloud". I want folks in these markets to have access to an introduction to these tools and
services (as well as access to ways to skill up on these) that will serve their goals. I want folks to feel comfortable navigating Azure
with a sense of belonging, rather than thinking that this is just what "some tech people do" or "it's that cloud thing". 

This week I think I finally started to gain clarity on things I could potentially do to reach this goal. 

My manager from back at GitHub, Phil Haack, wrote a post when he first started at Microsoft ["Drinking from the Fire Hose at Microsoft"](https://haacked.com/archive/2007/10/26/drinking-from-the-firehose.aspx/)
and this post is very true. In particular, I liked this part:
> I was forced to really think deeply about these issues, about what I really want out of a career, which is quite frankly something I haven’t done in a long time. I’ve been too busy doing and not spending any time pondering. It is really important to have a balance of both.

I think that the first few weeks I was doing - to be fair I needed to "do" a lot to get ramped up on Azure, enroll in benefits, change my 
alias from saguthal to sguthals (c'mon...saguthal...really?!) and make sure I had access to all internal sites when I went back home to San Diego and
wasn't on corpnet anymore. But now that I'm feeling a bit more confident and completed in those (don't worry, still a lot to learn on Azure),
I finally feel like I have the mental space to do long term planning and goal making. 

I'm chatting with various people inside and out of Microsoft to make sure I don't just re-invent the wheel. I'm navigating the large company
culture and gaining an understanding of how to work together across teams, and I'm doing so while trying to keep myself focused on having
a healthy work-life balance. 

I'm extremely optimistic and excited to be gaining this clarity and beginning to contribute in effective ways. 
